k6-operator: add a page about Istio support (#1984)
grafana/k6-docs: docs/sources/k6/next/set-up/set-up-distributed-k6/usage/istio.md

---
weight: 500
title: Use the k6 Operator with Istio
---

# Use the k6 Operator with Istio

> To use the k6 Operator against a cluster with [Istio](https://istio.io) support, you may need to perform some additional configuration. At the time of writing, Istio has two modes of execution: sidecar mode and ambient mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the k6 Operator against a cluster with [Istio](https://istio.io) support, you may need to perform some additional configuration. Istio has two modes of execution: sidecar mode and ambient mode.
```

## Sidecar mode

> If you use Istio in the [sidecar mode](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/), firstly, check the versions of your cluster and Istio. For the k6 Operator to work without issues with Istio in the sidecar mode, Istio's version must be >= 1.19 and Kubernetes version must be >= 1.28. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Istio in [sidecar mode](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/), first, check the versions of your cluster and Istio. For the k6 Operator to work without issues, Istio's version must be 1.19 or higher, and the Kubernetes version must be 1.28 or higher.
```

Additionally, Kubernetes cluster must have native sidecars [enabled](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/sidecar-containers/), which is the default behaviour since version 1.29 but must be enabled with a feature gate in version 1.28. Here's an example of the [kind cluster](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) with this configuration:

```yaml
kind: Cluster
apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
featureGates:
  SidecarContainers: true
```

> If the above requirements are not fulfilled, the k6 Operator will not be able to work with Istio because of [this issue](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/11045): the non-native sidecar `istio-proxy` does not exit and all Kubernetes Jobs end up stuck, including the ones started by the k6 Operator. Because of this, k6 Jobs enter a `NotReady` state, and the k6 Operator does not know how to handle it in a general case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the above requirements are not fulfilled, k6 Operator will not be able to work with Istio because of [this issue](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/11045): the non-native sidecar `istio-proxy` doesn't exit and all Kubernetes Jobs end up stuck, including the ones started by the k6 Operator. Because of this, k6 Jobs enter a `NotReady` state, and the k6 Operator doesn't know how to handle it in a general case.
```

> To solve this, upgrade versions of your cluster and Istio as described above and switch to using [Istio with native sidecars](https://istio.io/latest/blog/2023/native-sidecars/). As described in the [blog](https://istio.io/latest/blog/2023/native-sidecars/#trying-it-out), you need to switch on the flag `ENABLE_NATIVE_SIDECARS` in Istio as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this, upgrade versions of your cluster and Istio as described above and switch to using [Istio with native sidecars](https://istio.io/latest/blog/2023/native-sidecars/). As described in the [blog](https://istio.io/latest/blog/2023/native-sidecars/#trying-it-out), you need to enable the `ENABLE_NATIVE_SIDECARS` flag in Istio as well.
```

> ### Marking k6 pods for Istio injection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mark k6 pods for Istio injection
```

> Istio in the sidecar mode allows to [configure injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#controlling-the-injection-policy) on Pods and on Namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio in sidecar mode lets you [configure injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#controlling-the-injection-policy) on Pods and Namespaces.
```

> Since the k6 Operator is not aware of the Istio setup on your cluster, by default, it will create Pods without Istio labels. If you create a `TestRun`, you can set the Istio labels via `.spec.runner.metadata.labels`. If you create a `PrivateLoadZone`, you can set the labels on the Namespace where the `PrivateLoadZone` CR is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the k6 Operator is not aware of the Istio setup on your cluster, it will, by default, create Pods without Istio labels. If you create a `TestRun`, you can set the Istio labels via `.spec.runner.metadata.labels`. If you create a `PrivateLoadZone`, you can set the labels on the Namespace where the `PrivateLoadZone` CR is created.
```

## Ambient mode

> If you use Istio in the [ambient mode](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ambient/), the k6 Operator should work out-of-the-box, since Istio in ambient mode is not modifying Kubernetes workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Istio in [ambient mode](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ambient/), the k6 Operator should work out of the box, as Istio in ambient mode doesn't modify Kubernetes workloads.
```

> ### Marking k6 pods for Istio injection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mark k6 pods for Istio injection
```

> Istio in the ambient mode allows to [configure injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ambient/usage/add-workloads/#ambient-labels) on Pods, Services and Namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio in ambient mode lets you [configure injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ambient/usage/add-workloads/#ambient-labels) on Pods, Services, and Namespaces.
```

> Similarly to the [injection in the sidecar mode](#marking-k6-pods-for-istio-injection), you can use Pod level configuration with a `TestRun` and Namespace level configuration with a `PrivateLoadZone`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to [injection in sidecar mode](#marking-k6-pods-for-istio-injection), you can use Pod-level configuration with a `TestRun` and Namespace-level configuration with a `PrivateLoadZone`.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Similarly to [injection in sidecar mode](#mark-k6-pods-for-istio-injection), you can use Pod-level configuration with a `TestRun` and Namespace-level configuration with a `PrivateLoadZone`.
```
Fixing the link all at once too (it is being renamed in one of your comments).
